---
layout: draft
title: Click Clack Heel - The sound of childhood
---

As early as I remember, my brain registered the click clack sound. It was rhythimic in a 1 then a 2 tempo. Click. Clack. Click. Clack. Each sound moves closer and stronger with each step. The sound of my mom's heel when she came home from work.

Funnily, I haven't heard or acknowledged such a sound for a long time until recently. When my girlfriend starts wearing heels, I heard it. Click. Clack. Click. Clack. The sound came up with each stride. It activated a subset of my brain region that flood childhood memory into consciousness. Memory that was buried deep under my more recent shaped ones. There wasn't any significant events associated with these sounds. But they had a special meaning to me. Parental love might be the most unconditional and sincere one can get throuhgout their life. It might be the only one they have. So, when I heard this sound, it's associated with my mom coming home. And to a child, when mom is home, it's safe. It means that a meal will be prepped. "How was your day?" would be asked genuinely and not just any small talk. 

I sat on the 2nd floor, pretending to do my math homeworks. The familiar of my mother's engine revved up onto the porch and she parked her scooter in the roof area. Click. Clack. Mom is home. It was a signal to go down and said hi to her. It's familiar. It's close to my heart. When the sound is missing. I was missing. It's always strange to see my dad coming home before my mom. She was always there for the family first. Come home from her work. 20 minutes away. To prep a meal. A meal that can be done so quickly any professional chef would be scared. They would throw themselves over the floor to hire her. Her rought, bony but quick hands chopped up the vegetable. The meat. The aromatics. All of which goes into a pot or wok to stir fry while the other is boiling with water, prepped to poach the vegetalbes. The best way to consume vegetables. A method that have transform so many vegetables into something light yet delicious when dipped into a small side of fish sauce with lemon. A method that no Westerner have found a way to bring into their palate. A method that would put boiled brocolli to shame.

Click. Clack. The sound of mother's heels comes stronger. She haphazardly took out her documents, finishing up the family's business. It was the sound of nostalgia. The slowly yet rhythmic pace that brings fear and comfort. Feat because she would ask me what did I do today or whether I'm productive. Comfort because I know she's always there. Cooking something in the kitchen.

In Vietnam, mom is often overlooked. Overlooked because how fucked up society is setup. Overlooked because they are expected so much yet given so little. Overlooked because of so much prejudice about whatever they choose. Overlooked because everyone is indoctrinated to think that way. Overlooked because they are always hiding away from the spotlight. Hiding from taking up too much attention. Hiding because that's how they were taught. However, mother might be the most important figure in one's life, shaping our morals and beliefs. They are there when you are sad. Always having a hot meals to comfort you. They are there to listen to your rant. Listen to your everyday problems that you thought burden them yet brought them so much joy.